=head1 NAME

MD5 - Perl interface to the RSA Data Security Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use MD5;
    
    $context = new MD5;
    $context->reset();
    
    $context->add(LIST);
    $context->addfile(HANDLE);
    
    $digest = $context->digest();
    $string = $context->hexdigest();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<MD5> module allows you to use the RSA Data Security Inc. MD5
Message Digest algorithm from within Perl programs.

A new MD5 context object is created with the B<new> operation.
Multiple simultaneous digest contexts can be maintained, if desired.
The context is updated with the B<add> operation which adds the
strings contained in the I<LIST> parameter.  The context is updated
after each element is added so that C<add('foo', 'bar')> may give
different results to C<add('foobar')>.

The final message digest value is returned by the B<digest> operation
as a 16-byte binary string. This operation delivers the result of
operations since the last B<new> or B<reset> operation. Once the
operation has been performed, the context must be B<reset> before being
used to calculate another digest value.

Two convenience functions are also provided. The B<addfile> operation
takes an open file-handle and reads it until end-of file in 1024 byte
blocks adding the contents to the context. The B<hexdigest> operation
calls B<digest> and returns the result as a printable string of
hexdecimal digits. This is exactly the same operation as performed by
the B<unpack> operation in the following example.

=head1 EXAMPLES

    use MD5;
    
    $md5 = new MD5;
    $md5->add('foo', 'bar');
    $md5->add('baz');
    $digest = $md5->digest();
    
    print("Digest is " . unpack("H*", $digest) . "\n");

The above exmaple would print out the message

    Digest is 6df23dc03f9b54cc38a0fc1483df6e21

provided that the implementation is working correctly.

=head1 NOTE

The MD5 algorithm is defined in RFC1321. The basic C code is covered
by the following copyright:

=over 8

Copyright (C) 1991-2, RSA Data Security, Inc. Created 1991. All
rights reserved.

License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it
is identified as the "RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest
Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing this software
or this function.

License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided
that such works are identified as "derived from the RSA Data
Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm" in all material
mentioning or referencing the derived work.

RSA Data Security, Inc. makes no representations concerning either
the merchantability of this software or the suitability of this
software for any particular purpose. It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty of any kind.

These notices must be retained in any copies of any part of this
documentation and/or software.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

The MD5 interface was written by Neil Winton
(C<N.Winton@axion.bt.co.uk>).
